---
published: false
---
## How to install R on RedHat 7 in offline mode?

When remote repo is accessible from your network it is always easy to install packages and manage dependencies. But how to install those packages when we have no access to those repository from our local network? 
It is always a ltttle burden to handle. But it is doable, let me share it with you.

There are many ways to install R on RedHat 7. Let's say you want to install R-3.4 or 3.5, last versions. 
- you can install R from source code by building and compiling it on your server (linux server).
- you can install R from EPEL repository (the Extra Package For Entreprise Linux)
- you can install R from anaconda repositories using conda

We are not going to explain how to install R from build source (may be in another article).

### Install R from EPEL when no internet access

Your local network doesn't have access to the internet. You can ask your architectes or infrastructure managers to make the EPEL availlable for you in your local network or you can install R on a server that has internet access and then push the installed R pkg in your local network.

connecte to a linux that has the same version as your target server.
Let's say RedHat 7.5

cat /etc/redhat-release
Red Hat Enterprise Linux Server release 7.5 (Maipo)

It is always good to update repos

```
yum update
```

```
yum install -y R
```

This gives me an ERROR

```
Error: Package: R-core-devel-3.5.0-1.el7.x86_64 (epel)
           Requires: texinfo-tex
You could try using --skip-broken to work around the problem
You could try running: rpm -Va --nofiles --nodigest
```

Let's download and install those three packages fetched from http://mirror.centos.org/centos/7/os/x86_64/Packages/

texlive-epsf-doc-svn21461.2.7.4-38.el7.noarch.rpm texlive-epsf-svn21461.2.7.4-38.el7.noarch.rpm 
texinfo-tex-5.1-4.el7.x86_64.rpm

```
yum install -y texlive-epsf-doc-svn21461.2.7.4-38.el7.noarch.rpm texlive-epsf-svn21461.2.7.4-38.el7.noarch.rpm 
texinfo-tex-5.1-4.el7.x86_64.rpm
```

Now let's install R in download only mode in a given directory

```
yum install --downloadonly --downloaddir=(slash)apps R
```

All required packages for installation will be loaded in "apps" directory.

Next, you need to push this directory in your local network server.

If you wanna do it in a fancy way, you can create local repository that could be scrolled by YUM.

To do so, ensure that you have createrepo package.

```
yum install createrepo
```
push your directory in some path like "/apps"

make the directory indexable

```
createrepo apps
```
create a repo file in yum directory 

cd /etc/yum.repos.d

```
vim r-epel.repo
```

and then paste

*[r-epel]*

*name=Extra Packages for R 3.5 on RedHat 7 *

*baseurl=file:///apps/ *

*failovermethod=priority*

*enabled=1*

To ensure that the repo file is correctly set.

```
yum repolist 
```

Now you all set to install R

```
yum install R
```

Let's check the version

```
R --version
R version 3.5.0 (2018-04-23) -- "Joy in Playing"
Copyright (C) 2018 The R Foundation for Statistical Computing
Platform: x86_64-redhat-linux-gnu (64-bit)
```

### Install R from Anaconda repository

Anaconda is a python distribution package that bring variety of software like Jupyter Notebook, Spyder, and so on to facilitate the use of python in a given environment.

To install R with anaconda repositories, make sure you are using the right distro

which python

*/opt/anaconda/bin/python *

which conda

*/opt/anaconda/bin/conda*

Now install R

conda install R


## Done 